---
Title: "Tim's Chocolate Chip Cookies"
---
In my last year of college I made the decision to move to California
and seek my fortune as a programmer. The worry that I wouldn't be able
to make friends was a source of stress at the time, so I set about
brainstorming potential solutions. After some considered thinking, I
decided that the common ground all people share is a love of cookies.
If you ask someone over for dinner, it's a fair investment of time and
energy for both people involved. If you invite someone to coffee
downtown, you don't open your house as familiar and welcoming place.
However, if you invite someone over for fresh-baked chocolate-chip
cookies, it's all but impossible for them to resist.

Being a man of science, I began by experimenting with various recipes
from the internet, varying the many variables, and generating a rough
formula that mapped proportions of ingredients to end effects. Lucy
and I baked countless batches of chocolate-chip cookies from recipes
as simple as the classic Tollhouse recipe to experimental blog recipes
sweetened by instant pudding mix. By the time I moved west, I had a
pretty firm grasp of the parameters, and a solid recipe. When Lucy
joined me in Berkeley some years later, we picked up the old recipe
and performed a series of methodical iterations (versioned 1.0, 1.1,
and 1.2) to polish it into the recipe we have now fallen in love with.
It is sure to help you make friends.

Ingredients:

1 cup brown sugar (dark as night)

0.5 cup white sugar

2 sticks Challenge unsalted butter

1.5 eggs (whisk two together in a bowl, but only use three-quarters of it)

2 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp salt

1 tsp baking soda

2 cups flour

1 Tbs baker's cocoa powder

1 bag frozen Guittard semi-sweet chocolate chips

Steps:

Preheat oven to 350 degrees

Cut chilled butter up into chunks

Add sugar to butter

Cream butter and sugar together with your hands until smooth and partly-melted

Whisk two eggs together in a bowl and only add three-quarters of it to the mix

Mix in vanilla and salt

In a separate bowl, mix the baking soda, flour, and cocoa powder

With a wooden spoon, add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients
(don't over-stir)

Add the frozen chocolate chips to the batter (chilling the dough instantly)

Spoon the dough in 1.5-inch-diameter chunks onto a cool, heavy-duty
aluminum cookie sheet

Bake for 10-15 minutes (varies by oven temperature and preferences of the baker) 